TensorProductNetwork
====================

The goal of his project was to design and implement a backpropagation network that takes as input a representation 
of the relation “x R y” and produces as output a representation of the relation “y R x.” For example, for input 
such as “cats see boys,” the desired network output is “boys see cats.” In learning to do this with novel sentences,
the network would be demonstrating that connectionist networks are capable of a degree of systematicity, a step 
towards refuting one of the criticisms put forth by Fodor and Pylyshyn in their 1998 paper, "Connectionism and 
cognitive architecture: A critical analysis."

General strategy

The network is trained using backpropagation, a supervised learning technique. The network is presented with a 
corpus of input/output pairs that it uses to learn the given task. Once trained, the network is presented with a 
corpus of novel test sentences. The words in the training and test corpora are identical; however, the test 
sentences feature nouns in novel syntactic positions. This allows us to verify that the network is indeed learning 
the relationship between input and output rather than “memorizing” specific cases it encountered in training.

The network operates not on strings but on real numbers, so preprocessing is required to produce an appropriate 
representation of a given input sentence and the corresponding target sentence. The representation used in this 
project is a version of the tensor product (TP) representation described by Smolensky in his 1990 paper, "Tensor 
Product Variable Binding and the Representation of Symbolic Structures in Connectionist Systems." To facilitate 
this, each word is assigned a real number code. Similarly, the three possible roles (subject, verb, object) are 
each assigned codes. A TP for each sentence is produced using this role vector and the unique filler vector 
representing the sentence. Two experiments are performed in which two different sets of codes are used. The 
intention is to see what effect changing the word codes has on the network's ability to learn. The training and 
test corpora are comprised of 100 and 50 sentences respectively.
